this dinosaur is a pop legend he's as
much a marquee attraction as the man who
created him Steven Spielberg and here's
something most people don't know
Spielberg moonlights for making movies
to serve as a creative consultant to
Universal Studios his imagination is the
secret to the magic behind many of their
attractions but nowhere is his presence
more apparent than at Jurassic Park this
attraction was based on Spielberg's
blockbuster movie but long before the
film made it into neighborhood theaters
Spielberg was quietly behind the scenes
designing the ride the showpiece of
Jurassic Park is the river adventure
where you come face-to-face with the
wonders and terror of a lost world the
journey begins
travels deep into the rainforest within
seconds you discover hungry dinosaurs on
the rampage suddenly you realize you
could be lunch for the most fearsome
creature to ever prowl the planet t-rex
there's only one way out 85 foot
vertical drop the longest fastest
steepest water descent ever built your
boat plunges at speeds registering 50
miles per hour before careening into a
pool of water it took over five years to
create this ride several secret
locations in Hollywood and a lot of
money every detail had to be
painstakingly planned the majority of
time and money was spent bringing the
prehistoric stars of this attraction to
life
the end result some of the largest
characters ever created for any theme
park but these were not your
run-of-the-mill movie monsters
they had to survive conditions never
encountered on Spielberg's set unlike
the movie industry where we have to make
an effect last 15 minutes these animated
characters have to run 365 days a year
24 hours a day it's continual movement
every dinosaur is a frightening
full-scale life-sized robot but getting
them to move like the real thing isn't
easy
all of these beasts are powered by
electricity and most of them live in
water needless to say not a good mix the
secret custom-designed waterproof skins
but waterproof doesn't mean age proof
and the skins only have a lifespan of
about 12 months constant exposure to
water and sunlight wreaks havoc colors
fade or even worse the skin cracks
revealing the unsightly bolts wires and
steel rods that hold them all together
so occasionally the figures need to have
basically a facelift and when skin
problems erupt who are you going to call
the dinosaur dermatologist of course why
all the secrecy our recipe for making
skins is ours alone
three years of research and development
we've created our own special sauce that
special sauce is one of universals
patented recipes and keeping it away
from competitors is no simple matter the
blend of ingredients is so perfect they
keep it locked away in a secret location
where cameras aren't allowed but when
there's a problem here's what happens
each character starts out like this a
sculpted clay figure from there
a life-size model is built then a mold
is made of each part of the body when a
dinosaur has a skin problem Todd and his
team pull out the appropriate mold that
corresponds to the area on the creature
that's damaged they blend the
ingredients of the skin which is in a
liquid form and apply it to the mold
with a brush although we couldn't film
them mixing the secret recipe
Todd revealed one of the obvious but
critical ingredients silicone gallons on
gallons upon gallons hundreds of gallons
per character attached using multiple
fastening systems zippers velcro some of
your items used in the clothing industry
and putting a new suit of skin on a
t-rex is like breathing life into these
extinct creatures certain characters
such as t-rex take up to two years to
develop and create and they sit in our
shop perfectly still for that amount of
time the first time you see your
character come to life
blink breathe sneeze laugh smile it's
got to be one of the best payments the
entire world to see that kind of line
you